docs/claude-desktop.mdx, before:

---
title: Claude Desktop Setup
description: Step-by-step guide to using Latch with Claude Desktop.
---

This guide walks you through connecting Claude Desktop to your MCP servers through Latch.

## Prerequisites

- Latch server running (via Docker or locally)
- Claude Desktop installed
- An MCP server you want to protect (or use the example below)

## Step 1: Get Your API Key

1. Open the Latch dashboard (http://localhost:3000 or your hosted URL)
2. Create a workspace if you haven't already
3. Go to **Settings** → **API Keys**
4. Click **Create API Key** and copy it

## Step 2: Create an Upstream

An upstream represents the MCP server you want to protect.

1. Go to **Upstreams** in your workspace
2. Click **Create Upstream**
3. Choose your transport type:
   - **Stdio**: For MCP servers that run as local processes (most common)
   - **HTTP**: For MCP servers that run as web services
4. Give it a name (e.g., `filesystem`, `grep-server`, `my-mcp-server`)

<Tip>
The upstream name is used in your Claude Desktop config. Choose something descriptive but short.
</Tip>

## Step 3: Configure Claude Desktop

Claude Desktop reads its MCP server configuration from:

```
~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

### Using the Latch CLI Wrapper

The Latch CLI wraps your MCP server command, routing all tool calls through Latch.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "my-server-via-latch": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@latchagent/cli@latest",
        "run",
        "--api-key", "latch_...",
        "--upstream", "my-mcp-server",
        "--upstream-command", "npx",
        "--upstream-args", "-y,@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem,/Users/me/allowed-dir"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

**Breaking down the args:**

| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `@latchagent/cli@latest` | The Latch CLI package |
| `run` | Subcommand to start wrapping |
| `--api-key` | Your Latch API key |
| `--upstream` | Name of the upstream in Latch |
| `--upstream-command` | The command to run your MCP server |
| `--upstream-args` | Args for the upstream, **comma-separated** |

<Warning>
**Important:** Arguments in `--upstream-args` must be comma-separated, not space-separated. This is because shell argument parsing can't handle spaces inside a single argument value.
</Warning>

### Example: Filesystem Server

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "filesystem-via-latch": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@latchagent/cli@latest",
        "run",
        "--api-key", "latch_abc123...",
        "--upstream", "filesystem",
        "--upstream-command", "npx",
        "--upstream-args", "-y,@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem,/Users/me/documents"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Example: Grep Server

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "grep-via-latch": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@latchagent/cli@latest",
        "run",
        "--api-key", "latch_abc123...",
        "--upstream", "grep-server",
        "--upstream-command", "npx",
        "--upstream-args", "-y,@247arjun/mcp-grep"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Step 4: Sync Tools

After configuring Claude Desktop, sync the tools to Latch:

```bash
npx @latchagent/cli@latest tools-sync --api-key latch_... --upstream my-server
```

This registers all available tools from the upstream with Latch so you can create rules targeting specific tools.

## Step 5: Restart Claude Desktop

After editing the config file:

1. Fully quit Claude Desktop (Cmd+Q, not just close the window)
2. Reopen Claude Desktop
3. You should see your server in Claude's MCP server list

## Step 6: Create Your First Rule

1. Go to **Rules** in the Latch dashboard
2. Click **Create Rule**
3. Create a simple test rule:
   - **Name:** "Approve all external writes"
   - **Effect:** Require Approval
   - **Action Class:** External Write
   - **Upstream:** (your upstream name)
4. Save the rule

## Step 7: Test It

Ask Claude to do something that triggers your rule. For example, with a filesystem server:

> "Create a file called test.txt with some content"

You should see:
1. The request appears in the Latch dashboard
2. If it requires approval, you'll see a notification (or approve in dashboard)
3. After approval, Claude completes the action

## Troubleshooting

### Server Not Appearing in Claude

**Check the config file path:**
```bash
cat ~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

**Verify JSON is valid:**
```bash
npx jsonlint ~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

**Common mistakes:**
- Missing comma between servers
- Wrong path to config file
- Server name contains invalid characters

### "Connection refused" Errors

Make sure Latch is running and accessible:
```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/health
```

If using Docker:
```bash
docker compose ps
docker compose logs latch
```

### Node.js Version Issues

Claude Desktop bundles its own Node.js, but uses your system's npx. If you see errors like:
- `TypeError: args.at is not a function`
- `SyntaxError: node:fs/promises` issues

**Solution:** Ensure your default Node.js is v18.4.0 or higher:
```bash
node --version  # Should be v18.4.0+
```

If using nvm:
```bash
nvm use 22
nvm alias default 22
```

<Warning>
If you have old Node versions in `~/.nvm/versions/node/`, Claude Desktop might find them. Remove versions older than v18.4.0 to prevent conflicts.
</Warning>

### CLI Connection Issues

Test the CLI connection manually:
```bash
npx @latchagent/cli@latest run \
  --api-key latch_... \
  --upstream test \
  --upstream-command echo \
  --upstream-args hello
```

### Tools Not Showing Up

After adding an upstream, sync its tools:
```bash
npx @latchagent/cli@latest tools-sync --api-key latch_... --upstream my-server
```

Check the Tools page in the dashboard to verify tools were discovered.

## Security Best Practices

1. **Use specific API keys** for each client/use case
2. **Start with "Require Approval"** rules and relax as you trust the setup
3. **Enable Telegram notifications** for real-time alerts
4. **Review the audit log** regularly to understand agent behavior
5. **Use smart rules** for nuanced policies like "block searches for credentials"

## Next Steps

- [Create policy rules](/rules) to control what Claude can do
- [Set up Telegram notifications](/telegram) for mobile approvals
- [Configure smart rules](/smart-rules) for AI-powered policies

Commit message:

docs: rename Rules to Policies, merge Smart Rules as LLM-Evaluated Policies
- Renamed "Rules" to "Policies" throughout
- Merged "Smart Rules" into Policies page as "LLM-Evaluated Policies"
- No marketing speak - it's LLM-evaluated, call it what it is
- Updated all cross-references

docs/claude-desktop.mdx, after:

---
title: Claude Desktop Setup
description: Step-by-step guide to using Latch with Claude Desktop.
---

This guide walks you through connecting Claude Desktop to your MCP servers through Latch.

## Prerequisites

- Latch server running (via Docker or locally)
- Claude Desktop installed
- An MCP server you want to protect (or use the example below)

## Step 1: Get Your API Key

1. Open the Latch dashboard (http://localhost:3000 or your hosted URL)
2. Create a workspace if you haven't already
3. Go to **Settings** → **API Keys**
4. Click **Create API Key** and copy it

## Step 2: Create an Upstream

An upstream represents the MCP server you want to protect.

1. Go to **Upstreams** in your workspace
2. Click **Create Upstream**
3. Choose your transport type:
   - **Stdio**: For MCP servers that run as local processes (most common)
   - **HTTP**: For MCP servers that run as web services
4. Give it a name (e.g., `filesystem`, `grep-server`, `my-mcp-server`)

<Tip>
The upstream name is used in your Claude Desktop config. Choose something descriptive but short.
</Tip>

## Step 3: Configure Claude Desktop

Claude Desktop reads its MCP server configuration from:

```
~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

### Using the Latch CLI Wrapper

The Latch CLI wraps your MCP server command, routing all tool calls through Latch.

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "my-server-via-latch": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@latchagent/cli@latest",
        "run",
        "--api-key", "latch_...",
        "--upstream", "my-mcp-server",
        "--upstream-command", "npx",
        "--upstream-args", "-y,@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem,/Users/me/allowed-dir"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

**Breaking down the args:**

| Argument | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `@latchagent/cli@latest` | The Latch CLI package |
| `run` | Subcommand to start wrapping |
| `--api-key` | Your Latch API key |
| `--upstream` | Name of the upstream in Latch |
| `--upstream-command` | The command to run your MCP server |
| `--upstream-args` | Args for the upstream, **comma-separated** |

<Warning>
**Important:** Arguments in `--upstream-args` must be comma-separated, not space-separated. This is because shell argument parsing can't handle spaces inside a single argument value.
</Warning>

### Example: Filesystem Server

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "filesystem-via-latch": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@latchagent/cli@latest",
        "run",
        "--api-key", "latch_abc123...",
        "--upstream", "filesystem",
        "--upstream-command", "npx",
        "--upstream-args", "-y,@modelcontextprotocol/server-filesystem,/Users/me/documents"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Example: Grep Server

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "grep-via-latch": {
      "command": "npx",
      "args": [
        "@latchagent/cli@latest",
        "run",
        "--api-key", "latch_abc123...",
        "--upstream", "grep-server",
        "--upstream-command", "npx",
        "--upstream-args", "-y,@247arjun/mcp-grep"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Step 4: Sync Tools

After configuring Claude Desktop, sync the tools to Latch:

```bash
npx @latchagent/cli@latest tools-sync --api-key latch_... --upstream my-server
```

This registers all available tools from the upstream with Latch so you can create rules targeting specific tools.

## Step 5: Restart Claude Desktop

After editing the config file:

1. Fully quit Claude Desktop (Cmd+Q, not just close the window)
2. Reopen Claude Desktop
3. You should see your server in Claude's MCP server list

## Step 6: Create Your First Rule

1. Go to **Rules** in the Latch dashboard
2. Click **Create Rule**
3. Create a simple test rule:
   - **Name:** "Approve all external writes"
   - **Effect:** Require Approval
   - **Action Class:** External Write
   - **Upstream:** (your upstream name)
4. Save the rule

## Step 7: Test It

Ask Claude to do something that triggers your rule. For example, with a filesystem server:

> "Create a file called test.txt with some content"

You should see:
1. The request appears in the Latch dashboard
2. If it requires approval, you'll see a notification (or approve in dashboard)
3. After approval, Claude completes the action

## Troubleshooting

### Server Not Appearing in Claude

**Check the config file path:**
```bash
cat ~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

**Verify JSON is valid:**
```bash
npx jsonlint ~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

**Common mistakes:**
- Missing comma between servers
- Wrong path to config file
- Server name contains invalid characters

### "Connection refused" Errors

Make sure Latch is running and accessible:
```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/health
```

If using Docker:
```bash
docker compose ps
docker compose logs latch
```

### Node.js Version Issues

Claude Desktop bundles its own Node.js, but uses your system's npx. If you see errors like:
- `TypeError: args.at is not a function`
- `SyntaxError: node:fs/promises` issues

**Solution:** Ensure your default Node.js is v18.4.0 or higher:
```bash
node --version  # Should be v18.4.0+
```

If using nvm:
```bash
nvm use 22
nvm alias default 22
```

<Warning>
If you have old Node versions in `~/.nvm/versions/node/`, Claude Desktop might find them. Remove versions older than v18.4.0 to prevent conflicts.
</Warning>

### CLI Connection Issues

Test the CLI connection manually:
```bash
npx @latchagent/cli@latest run \
  --api-key latch_... \
  --upstream test \
  --upstream-command echo \
  --upstream-args hello
```

### Tools Not Showing Up

After adding an upstream, sync its tools:
```bash
npx @latchagent/cli@latest tools-sync --api-key latch_... --upstream my-server
```

Check the Tools page in the dashboard to verify tools were discovered.

## Security Best Practices

1. **Use specific API keys** for each client/use case
2. **Start with "Require Approval"** rules and relax as you trust the setup
3. **Enable Telegram notifications** for real-time alerts
4. **Review the audit log** regularly to understand agent behavior
5. **Use LLM-evaluated policies** for nuanced conditions like "block searches for credentials"

## Next Steps

- [Create policy rules](/rules) to control what Claude can do
- [Set up Telegram notifications](/telegram) for mobile approvals
- [Create policies](/policies) to control what actions are allowed
